## December 4, 2012

#### Update:

After viewing various Kinect-driven machine demonstrations, reading about capturing Kinect image data (especially hand movements), and working writing my own Kinect modules, I've realized that simply capturing hand motions is quite an ambitious project. In fact, many researchers have dedicated long hours to capturing hand motions, with varying success. Out-of-the-box, Kinect does not support hand motion capture; it provides a Skeleton object, whose most relevant hand features are a right and left hand joint and a right and left wrist joint. Finger joints are not provided in the skeleton.

Aside from capturing hand image data, I've concluded that simply building the hand is beyond my technical expertise, and would require more capital than I have access too. Ironically, building the mechanical hand seems more feasible than accurately capturing hand image data.

Therefore, I think the first major milestone in this project should succeed in the following: use Kinect to capture some motion or gesture and drive the motor in response to this capture. Though this objective seems quite simple, it's actually the synthesis of four separate modules: Kinect image capture and processing, gesture encoding into byte packages, communication between a .NET application and an Arduino board, byte package parsing and pin communication on the Arduino board, and motor control via Arduino digital/analog output pins and specialized control circuit. Completing this milestone's objective provides a basis for more complication gesture capturing and motor control, potentially leading this project's original objective.

#### Logs:

- Wrote routines to serialize GestureTree.
- Gesture recognition worked with basic GestureTree algorithm. Look at \The Eye\Phase 1\Tests\Test 1. Made flex motion, captured gesture and saved. Then loaded gesture tree and compared skeletons to gesture. When gesture was identified, paused program execution.
- Got gesture recognition to control the DC motor! When I flex my arm, the motor turns on. When I release the flex, it turns off. Look at \The Eye\Phase 1\Tests\Test 1.
